 I will be with you. We shall overcome from where. At this time I have the honor to present to you the moral leader of our nation. I am happy to join with you today in what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration for freedom in the history of our nation. I am happy to join with you today in what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration for freedom in the history of our nation. 5 years ago, a great American in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a bread beacon light of hope for millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a joyous state break to end the long night of their captivity. But 100 years later, the Negro still is not free. 100 years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. 100 years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. 100 years later, the Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. And so we've come here today to dramatize the shameful condition. In a sense, we've come to our nation to capital through cash a check. When the architects of our republic wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promise or a note, who was ever American, was the whole else. This note was a promise in all men. Yes, black men as well as white men would be guaranteed the unignal rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. It is obvious today that America has defaulted on this promise or a note in so far as her citizens of color or concern. Instead of honoring this sacred obligation, America has given the Negro people a bad check. A check which has come back marked in sufficient form. But we refuse to believe that the Bank of Justice is bankrupt. We refuse to believe the bad are insufficient funds in the great force of opportunity of this nation. So we've come to cash this check, a check that will give us upon demand the riches of freedom and the security of justice. We have also come to this house spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of now. This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the pan-fuelizing floor to press release. Now is the time to make real the promises of democracy. Now is the time to rise from the dark and desolate pallet of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice. Now is the time to lift our nation from the quick sense of racial injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood. Now is the time to make justice a reality for all of God's children. It would be fatal for the nation to overlook the urgency of the moment. This sweltering sum of the Negroes legitimate discontent will not pass until that is an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. 1963 is not an end but a beginning. Those who hope that the Negro needed to blow off steam and will now become tent will have a rude awakening if the nation returns to business as usual. Now will be neither rest nor tranquility in America until the Negroes granted his citizenship rights. The whirlwinds of the river will continue to shake the foundations of our nation until the bright day of justice emerges. That is something that I must say to my people who stand on the warm threshold which leads into the palace of justice in the process of gaining our rightful place. We must not be guilty of wrongful deeds. Let us not seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of bitterness and hatred. We must forever conduct our struggle on the high plain of dignity and discipline. We must not allow our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence. Again and again we must rise to the majestic heights of meeting physical force with so forth. The marvelous new militancy which has engulfed the Negro community must not lead us to a distrust of all white people. From many of our white brothers that have evidenced by their presence here today have come to realize that that destiny is part of our destiny. They have come to realize that that freedom is inextricably bound to our freedom. We cannot walk alone. As we walk we must make the pledge that we shall always march ahead. We cannot turn back. Now those who are asking the devotees of civil rights when will you be satisfied? We can never be satisfied as long as the Negro as the fifth victim of the unspeakable horrors of police brutality. We can never be satisfied as long as our bodies heavy with the fatigue of travel. We cannot gain large in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. We cannot be satisfied as long as the Negro's basic mobility is from a small like get told to a larger one. We can never be satisfied as long as our children are stripped of their selfhood and robbed of that dignity by sign stating for whites on them. We cannot be satisfied as long as the Negro in Mississippi cannot vote and the Negro in New York believes he has nothing for which to vote. No, no, we are not satisfied and we will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters and righteousness like a mighty street. I am not my unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. Some of you have come fresh from narrow jail sale. Some of you have come from areas where your press quest for freedom, less you battled by the storms of persecution and staggered by the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans of creative suffering and tend to work with the faith that unerring suffering is redemption. Go back to Mississippi. Go back to Alabama. Go back to South Carolina. Go back to Georgia. Go back to Louisiana. Go back to the slums and get those of our northern cities. Knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed. Let us not wallow in the valley of despair. I say to you today my friend. So even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dreams. I have a dream. But one day this nation will rise up, live up the true meaning of its dreams. We hold these truths to be self evident that all men are created in Jesus Christ. I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia, sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave owners, will they be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood? I have a dream. One day, even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice. I have a dream. My four little children, one day living a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of that character. I have a dream today. I have a dream that one day, down in Alabama with its vicious racists, with its governor having his lips tripping with the words of interposition and multiplication. One day right back in Alabama, little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers. I have a dream today. I have a dream that one day every college shall be exalted. Every hill and mountain shall be made low. The rough places will be made plain and the crooked places will be made straight and the borough of the large shall be revealed in all flesh shall see it together. This is our hope. This is the faith that I go back to the south with. With this faith, we will be able to heal out of the mountain of despair, stone of hope. With this faith, we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith, we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day. This will be the day. This will be the day with all of God's children. Be able to sing with new meaning, my country is the sweet land of liberty of the icing. Land where my father's died, land of the pilgrim's pride, from every mountain side, left freedom ring and for America's to be a great nation. This must become true. So let freedom ring from the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire, let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York, let freedom ring from the heightening alligators of Pennsylvania, let freedom ring from the snow cap, rocket of Colorado, let freedom ring from the crevace of slopes of California, but not only that, let freedom ring from stone of hope. Let freedom ring from stone mountain of Georgia, let freedom ring from look out the mountain of Tennessee, let freedom ring from every hill and mold hill of Mississippi, from every mountain side, let freedom ring and when this happens, when we allow freedom ring, when we let it ring from ever visiting ever hamlet, from ever state, from ever state, from ever coming to heaven. We will be able to speed up that day when all of the children, black men and white men, Jews and 10,000 Protestants and Catholic, will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the Holy Spirit, free at last, free at last, thank God a matter, we are free at last.